Scotland is at war in the opening scene, and two of Scotland’s generals, Macbeth and Banquo, are returning from a successful battle. They are intercepted by three hags who tell the generals about a prophesy. The witches claim that Macbeth will become Thane of Cawdor and then King of Scotland. They also claim that though Banquo will never become a king himself, he will father a long line of kings. Both generals are initially skeptical of these claims, until a few moments later when Macbeth is appointed Thane of Cawdor after the current Thane betrayed Scotland.
Macbeth begins to believe in the predictions made by the three witches, and he writes to his wife, Lady Macbeth. Upon Macbeth’s return, his wife is waiting to greet her husband and discuss their possible fate. Together they decide that the one sure way to attain kingship is to kill Duncan, the current King of Scotland. At first Macbeth is unsure about the plan, but Lady Macbeth manages to convince him otherwise. One night, Macbeth stabs Duncan in his sleep and blames the guards outside his chambers. Macduff, a nobleman, discovers the body.
Immediately, the effects of the murder begin to bother both Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.  Macbeth sees ghostly images, and Lady Macbeth has sleepless nights filled with night terrors.  Macbeth is named king after Duncan’s death, and he and Lady Macbeth continue to plot. Remembering the rest of the prophecy, Macbeth plans to murder Banquo and his son to ensure that Banquo’s line of kings never exists. Ultimately, Banquo is killed, but Banquo’s son escapes.
After Banquo’s murder, the toll of their actions sink in deeper for Macbeth and Lady Macbeth.  Macbeth continues to see ghostly images, and Lady Macbeth continues to regret her decisions. Paranoia sends Macbeth back to the witches for reassurance that his kingship is secure. The witches tell him three things: he should beware Macduff, he will be unharmed by any man born of woman, and he should only worry when Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane Castle. Macbeth is slightly relieved but does order that Macduff’s castle be seized and his family be murdered.
Macduff hears of his family’s demise and begins a crusade against Macbeth. While an army sweeps in from England to battle Macbeth, Lady Macbeth succumbs to her own guilt and commits suicide. Macbeth is overcome with grief but prepares for battle nevertheless. He is horrified to discover that the army approaching him is carrying branches of trees from Birnam Wood and that the witch’s warnings are coming true. He fights strongly until he is face to face with the vengeful Macduff who proclaims that he was not born of woman but taken from his mother’s womb early (by C-section). Macduff then proceeds to murder and behead Macbeth, and Duncan’s son Malcolm is named King of Scotland.